
<div class="intro">
This program mainly operates on <a href="http://cura.free.fr/gauq/17archg.html">C.U.R.A Gauquelin archives</a> version 5.
<br>The purpose is to :
<ul class="simple">
    <li>restore the groups used in the historical tests,</li>
    <li>provide a corrected version of cura.free.fr files.</li>
</ul>
If you are only interested by data generated by the program, you can directly <a href="https://larzac.info/gauquelin5">visit this page</a>.
</div>

</header>

<article>

<!-- ********************************************************************************* -->
<h2>Corrected version of cura files</h2>
C.U.R.A Gauquelin archives published on cura.free.fr have the immense merit to exist, but before being exploitable, they need to be extracted from web pages and corrected. So the purpose is to build a ready-to-use, programmer-friendly version of the data.
<br>
<br>1 - Generate csv files with a standard format.
<ul>
    <li>Express dates in a standard format (iso 8601).</li>
    <li>Associate locations to a common reference (geonames.org).</li>
    <li>Express countries in a standard format (iso 3166).</li>
    <li>Use a common list of profession codes among all the generated files.</li>
    <li>Restore precise family names and given names when possible.</li>
</ul>
<br>2 - Correct the errors that can be corrected.



<!-- ********************************************************************************* -->
<h2>Restoration of the original groups</h2>
The purpose is to restore the groups used in the historical tests ; provide the exact historical version used by actors (errors included) and a corrected version.
<br>To do this, I used :
<ul class="simple">
    <li>html pages retrieved from <a href="http://cura.free.fr/gauq/17archg.html">cura.free.fr</a>,</li>
    <li>the original book of Gauquelin, "L'influence des astres", 1955.</li>
</ul>
In theory, this permits a complete restoration of 1955 original groups and a partial correction. In practice, this is partially done.

<!-- ************************************* -->
<h3>Restoration</h3>

The way this step has been done implies human corrections :
<ul class="simple">
    <li>Associate records of cura files to the 1955 groups.</li>
    <li>Check each record to note the differences between 1955 book and cura file. This step is long and involves 2 persons : one reads the book, the other types the differences.</li>
</ul>

<!-- ************************************* -->
<h3>Correction</h3>
A complete correction of data would need an exhaustive check with civil registries ; this is now possible because French civil registries can be freely consulted online - but still a very long and teddious process and hasn't been done. Instead, the corrected versions of 1955 groups are built using a mix of human corrections (for names, names of birth places) and cura data (for dates). This relies on the hypothesis that cura data contain less errors that Gauquelin 1955 book.
<br>
<br>Other documents would be helpful to add new corrections, in particular the booklets "BIRTH AND PLANETARY DATA GATHERED SINCE 1949", published by Michel and Françoise Gauquelin (LERRCP) between 1970 and 1982. They contain information that are not present in cura.free.fr data.

<!-- ********************************************************************************* -->
<h2>Current results</h2>
For the moment, work has been done only on lists containing names.

<ul class="margin-top">
    <li>Generation of partially corrected version of CURA files for series A, D6, D10, E1, E3.</li>
    <li>Restoration of one 1955 group, "570 sportifs", from serie A1</li>
    <li>
        Isolation of other 1955 groups in serie A2 : "576 membres associés et correspondants de l'académie de médecine", "508 autres médecins notables", "349 membres, associés et correspondants de l'académie des sciences"
    </li>
</ul>

<!-- ********************************************************************************* -->
<h2>Status</h2>

Operates on data retrieved on 2017-04-26  
<br>Code developed with php 7.2 ; tested on linux (ubuntu 18.4)  
<br>
<br>The software, current documentation and all files containing corrections or informations are released under :
<ul class = "simple">
    <li>
        GPL : <a href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html">General Public Licence</a>
    </li>
    <li>
        FDL : <a href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html">Free Documentation Licence</a>
    </li>
    <li>
        CC-BY-SA-4 : <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution -  Share Alike</a>.
    </li>
</ul>

<br>This software has a slow development pace because I do that on my spare time. I generally work on it for a few days, leave it for a few months, and start again.

